=head1 DESIGN NOTES

Much of the design of Precis comes from several sources:

=over 4

=item *

Lebowitz, M. (1983) Memory-based parsing. Artificial Intelligence, 21(4), 363–404.

=item *

Mauldin, M. L. (1991) Conceptual Information Retrieval: A Case Study in Adaptive Partial Parsing, Kluwer Academic.

=item *

Hopewell et al. (2008). CONSORT for Reporting Randomized Controlled Trials in Journal and Conference Abstracts: Explanation and Elaboration, PLoS Medicine 5(1), e20.

=back

The basic approach is that of text skimming. There is no real need to parse or analyse the whole text to determine
relevance. We really want to skim the text with a bunch of questions loosely associated to relevance. These
questions include:

=over 4

=item *

Does this text describe a clinical trial? (this is where the CONSORT guidance is useful)

=item *

Does this text describe an in-vitro study?

=item *

Does the text refer to a gene, or a set of genes?

=item *

Does the text refer to a cancer type?

=item *

Was the trial a controlled prospective study?

=item *

What was the outcome of the study?

=back

Admittedly, we are somewhat distorting the script approach, but we are using the assumption that
CONSORT more or less forms a script for a clinical trial, and that -- if that script is matched --
the we can fill in the various slots in the composing conceptual dependencies. The question is:
what are the conceptual dependencies?

=head1 ANALYTIC UNITS

Rather than "conceptual dependencies" or "action units" (in the case of IPP), we use a term that is
less related to news reports: "analytic units", which happily has the same acronym. There are several
standard AUs that we expect to find, and these help define what we want in terms of slots for
classification and relevance assessment. These include:

=over 4

=item focusing units

These describe a statement of the problem(s)/research issue(s) addressed, and tend to form the
initial and first 1/4 of the abstract, often one or two sentences. A typical sentence might be, e.g.,
"To study the influence of DMA and DMB genes on susceptibility to Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)."

=item methods units

These describe the research methods used (experimental research, case studies, questionnaires, etc.),
and typically follow the focusing units. Typical methods may mention assays conducted, either as part
of a clinical trial or as part of an in-vitro study. A methods statement might be, "HLA-DRB1, DMA and
DMB polymorphisms were defined by PCR SSOP in 203 European Mediterranean RA patients and 181
unrelated healthy controls" - here PCR SSOP is actually a technique.

=item results units

These describe what was found. This can include a prognosis, for example, a typical sentence is: "Based
on long-term follow-up (average 135 months), a majority (83.5%) of GISTs with PDGFRA mutations followed
a benign course."

=item conclusion units

These make inferences and claims based on the results. The boundary between the conclusion and results
may be vaguer than some of the others (although strong numeric data tends to mark results rather than)
conclusions. A conclusion may also report a prognosis, but will do so in a different form, e.g.
"RAS appears to be a pejorative prognostic factor in terms of survival in NSCLC globally,
in ADC and when it is studied by PCR."

=back

This shows that there are cross-cutting dimensions. E.g., "prognosis" might be something that relates to
"focusing", "results", and "conclusions". "PCR"

=head1 CAUSALITY

Notes from: http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~ai-lab/pubs/mooney-ms-thesis.pdf

=over 4

=item precondition

A link between a state and an action it enables.

=item effect

A link between an action and a resulting state.

=item motivation

A link between a volitional action and the beliefs and goals of the actor which motivated them to perform the action.

=item inference

A link between a state and another state that it implies.

=back

To these we add:

=over 4

=item association

A link between a state and another state, without implication one way or the other.

=back

=cut
